hi guys thanks for joining me my name is
Jamal and I'm going to talk you through
a total essay today what is the essay
about so this is what it's going to look
like on the screen on the day so
independent writing task instructions
for this task you'll write an essay in
response to a question that asks you to
state explain and support your opinion
on an issue you have 30 minutes to plan
write and revise your essay so as you
can see there you're told that you need
to answer a question related to an
opinion so you're going to be given a
topic and you're going to be asked
whether you agree or disagree and you
need to take one side of the story
or one side of the argument and then
explain why you support that side of the
argument alright let's take a look at
the rest of the essay count typically an
effective essay will contain a minimum
of 300 words your essay will be judged
on the quality of your writing this
includes the development of your ideas
the organization of your essay and the
quality and accuracy of the language you
use to express your ideas
okay so let's sum that up you've got 30
minutes to write an essay that gives
your opinion on a topic and you need to
write a minimum of 300 words meaning you
can write over 300 but not under 300 now
what the examiners are going to be
looking for is the development of your
ideas so how will you express yourself
and how will you support your ideas I
also how will you organize your essay
they're also going to look at the
quality and accuracy of your language so
your vocabulary and your grammar so this
is an electronic test so you're going to
be sitting in front of a screen and the
essay section is going to look something
like this so you can see you've got your
directions here so you've got 30 min
to plan write and revise your essay
you've got your essay question
underneath and here on the right hand
side you've got where you're actually
going to type your essay and as you type
you're able to see the word count there
so you can check how many words you've
actually written to make sure that you
meet the 300 word minimum if you want to
rearrange your essay you can cut and
paste and undo but once you click next
and exit out of the essays you're not
going to be able to go back to make any
changes okay so now that we have an
understanding of what this part of the
test looks like let's take a look at an
essay structure so your essay will look
something like this so my essay is a
four paragraph essay I've got my
introduction my first body paragraph my
second body paragraph and my conclusion
now this essay structure is not random
it's very specific and it follows a
sentence-by-sentence approach which I'm
going to go through with you so now
we're going to take a look at my essay
sentence-by-sentence
and you're going to reconstruct your own
essay SEC another look at the prompt do
you agree or disagree with the following
statement always telling the truth is
what is the most important consideration
in any relationship between people use
specific reasons and examples to support
your answer okay so the essay topic
there is is it more important to tell
the truth do you agree or disagree and
then why or why not
alright let's take a look at my
introduction paragraph USA should always
start with an introduction paragraph and
here's the sentence by sentence
structure we have a background or
sentence we paraphrase the prompt and
then we give out the ISA statement
a background sentence for this topic
would be honesty is the best policy or
so they say the reason for the
background sentence is to introduce the
topic is to tell the reader what the
main idea of the essay is and in this
case it's about honesty then I
paraphrase the essay prompt many people
believe that telling the truth is vital
to successful interpersonal
relationships now this is basically
saying the same thing that the essay
question says but in a slightly
different way so changing the structure
and the vocabulary a little bit the last
sentence of my introduction is my thesis
statement it gives my opinion and it
tells the reader what my essay will do
my opinion is I disagree and this essay
will explain why so I have chosen to say
that I disagree that honesty is the best
policy which is an interesting approach
to take all right now that you know the
structure of the introduction I'm going
to give you a couple of minutes to write
your own introduction to the essay
prompt now I'm going to show you the
essay prompt again but before I do my
essay took the approach that honesty is
not the best policy
what I would like you to do is to take
the opposite approach to that that
honesty is the best policy so by the end
of this we're going to have two
different opinions I'm going to show you
the prompt one more time and I'm going
to let you write your introduction so
the prompt is or the topic is always
telling the truth is the most important
consideration in any relationship
between people your introduction should
include a background sentence
introducing the topic paraphrasing the
prompt and then the thesis statement
which gives your opinion and
cessful DSA will do so you've got two
minutes to type your own introduction
and your time startsnow
okay time is up how is the act so
hopefully it's sort of breaking your
introduction down in to the three
sentence parts will help to give you
sort of a more of an idea of what to
write and also how to structure your
introduction so the next thing we're
going to look at is the body of the
essay these are the two body paragraphs
let's take a look at the structure we've
got an opening sentence first raise an
example and then a closing idea a second
reason an example and then a closing
idea yeah so let's look at mine firstly
being completely honest could result in
negative professional consequences for
the speaker so my opening sentence
introduces the first idea which is being
honest can have negative professional
consequences my first reason is as an
employee for instance telling the truth
could be to your detriment now I need to
give an example of how it can be to my
detriment for example if you make a
mistake it may be better if you fix the
mistake rather than tell your boss hmm
okay my clothing idea is this could say
to you losing face and protect you from
possibly losing your job all right so
here's a nice sort of structural
development to my paragraph I want to
continue it further by giving another
reason why honesty being honest can have
negative professional consequences so my
second reason is secondly telling small
lies at job interviews may actually work
to your favor an example is if the
interviewer asks why you want the job
you may say it's because you are
passionate about the industry in reality
it could be because you need the money
my closing idea is the real answer
probably would not get you the job so
the closing ideas are kind of like a
sort of conclusion a little concluding
idea so I opened my body paragraph with
the first idea which here was
professional consequences a reason is
that these consequences could be
negative I gave an example about making
a mistake and then a closing idea that
if you lie you could actually protect
yourself
the second reason was about job
interviews now notice how both of the
reasons were related to the opening idea
of professionalism the example was lying
in an interview could actually help you
get the job now remember this is not
necessarily my opinion so when you're
writing an essay you don't actually have
to really believe what you're writing
you as long as you structure your essay
correctly and you support your idea so
I've given reasons and examples for why
I believe this so you're not being
judged on the moral you know on your the
morality of your ideas you're being
judged on how you write and express them
okay so what I would like you to do now
is write your body paragraph now
remember you're taking the opposite
point of view to me you are writing
about why honesty is a good thing for
people so I want you to write your first
body paragraph using that structure and
you've got five minutes to do so your
time starts now
okay how did you go with your first body
paragraph now in the exam you'll
probably have a little bit more time
than that I gave you five minutes you
might want to spend about seven minutes
writing each body paragraph okay now I'm
going to show you my second body
paragraph which follows the exact same
structure but my opening sentence
introduces an new idea which is
furthermore lives can actually benefit
human relationships in many ways so my
first body paragraph talks about
professionalism and how honesty isn't
always good for your professional life
this second paragraph is talking about
how honesty or lying actually not being
honest can actually benefit your
personal relationships my first reason
is on a personal level sometimes we are
bound by duty to do things we don't want
to do my example is for example if
you're invited to a friend's birthday
party but you don't feel like going it
might be better to tell them that you
are sick and can't make it rather than
the tell them the truth that you can't
really be bothered so here's my example
my closing ideal concluding idea is this
little lie could save your friendship
the second reason should actually be
down here is secondly being totally
honest all of the time could lose you
friends hmm there's a saying that goes
don't shoot the messenger this means
that there are many that many times the
one who speaks the truth is often blamed
even though they are just relaying facts
about circumstances that they may not
have even caused so I need to give an
example of what I mean by that what kind
of circumstances well take someone who
finds out that their friends partner is
cheating on them if that person tells
their friend their friend may not
believe them and actually be angry at
them for speaking the truth so this is a
quite specific example my closing idea
is the truth teller may find themselves
in a situation where they become the
villain
and have to defend themselves so this
whole paragraph supports why honesty is
not always the best policy in personal
relationships or situations okay now
it's your check to write your second
body paragraph giving me another sort of
idea or slant that supports why you
think honesty is the best policy okay so
give me your idea your reasons why and
your examples you've got five minutes
starting now
[Music]
okay well done everybody that was a
great asset your 3/4 of the way through
your day we just have the final
paragraph to write which is the
conclusion now a lot of people including
myself when I was at university he
thought that the conclusion was the
hardest paragraph to writes like you've
written your whole essay and now you
kind of you know want to just get it
over and done with and so a lot of
people sort of get stuck or they write a
really good essay in this conclusion
sort of is a bit weak but actually the
conclusion is probably the easiest
paragraph in the whole essay and I'm
going to show you why so it's only
really two sentences and all you're
doing is summarizing your argument or
your opinion and then summarizing the
reasons why so my example is to conclude
though honesty has its merits it is not
always the best policy so that was my
argument throughout the whole essay is
that honesty is not always the best
policy and my reasons were not telling
the truth can sometimes protect you
personally and professionally so the two
main reasons that I used were your
personal life and your professional life
so it's just a two sentence summary of
your opinion and summary of the reason
why you thought that so using your
argument and your reasons I'd like you
to write a two sentence
conclusion to your essay you've got a
minute and a half to do that
okay how did you find writing the
conclusion easy right once you've
written the essay it's pretty much just
restating what you've already said but
in two sentences alright so now I'm
going to walk you through my complete
essay and we're going to recap its parts
all over again now you can also compare
those parts to your essay to make sure
that you've kind of followed the
structure and applied the formula okay
my background sentence in using the
topic honesty is the best policy
also they say paraphrasing the prompt
many people believe that telling the
truth is vital to successful
interpersonal relationships my thesis
statement is however I disagree and this
essay will explain why going into my
first body paragraph firstly being
completely honest could result in
negative professional consequences for
the speaker as an employee for instance
telling the truth could be to your
detriment for example if you make a
mistake it may be better if you fix the
mistake yourself rather than tell your
boss this could save you losing face and
protect you from possibly losing your
job secondly telling small lies that job
interviews may actually work in your
favor if the interviewer asks you why
you want the job you may say it's
because you are passionate about the
industry in reality it could be because
you need the money
the real answer probably would not get
you the jump furthermore lies can
benefit human relationships in many ways
on a personal level sometimes we are
bound by duty to do things we don't know
we do not want to do for example if you
invited to a friend's birthday party but
you don't feel like going it might be
better to tell them that you're sick and
can't make it rather than tell them the
truth that you can't really be bothered
this little lie could save your
friendship secondly being totally honest
all of the time could lose your friends
there is a saying that goes don't shoot
the messenger this means that many times
the one who who speaks the truth is
often blamed even though they are just
relaying facts about circumstances that
they may not have even caused take
someone whose friend finds take someone
who Flags out their friends partner is
cheating on them if that person tells
their friend their friend may not
believe them and actually be angry at
them for speaking the truth the truth
teller may find themselves in a
situation where they become the villain
and have to defend themselves to
conclude though honesty has its merits
it is not always the best policy not
telling the truth can sometimes actually
protect you personally and
professionally okay
again I'm not advocating lying in any
sense the reason why I chose to take
this perspective in the essay is that so
you could then write the opposite
version which is why honesty is good and
is good for people so hopefully you are
able to apply the same structure that
we've just gone through to that
particular point of view so again it
doesn't really matter what your opinion
is as long as you're able to write it
and develop your argument in a way
that's supportive and that's strong and
supported by examples now with the essay
the good thing about it is that you do
get to type it you do get to see the
amount of words displayed on the screen
and you do see a timer
and I do suggest that you do allow for
at least 10 minutes probably 10 minutes
is enough at the end to go back and read
your essay a couple of times you might
want to rearrange it you might want to
cut and paste certain things you might
want to you might read it and realize
that all your arguments aren't really
flowing or there's some contradiction
there so a lot of the times when we
write something without reading it and
submit it
we're losing the chance to actually make
corrections that could save us points so
I would suggest two minutes on your
introduction and maybe seven or eight
minutes for each body paragraph two
minutes on your conclusion so that's 20
minutes altogether that leaves you with
10 minutes to review and revise your
essay now today a you did get to write a
total TOEFL essay if you have a paid
account with us here at e2 language I
suggest that you if you want someone to
look at your essay or mark your essay
you can book in for a tutorial with a
TOEFL teacher and you can submit the
essay that you wrote for feedback if you
do not have a pet account you can
upgrade to access a tutorial with the
teacher for essay feedback okay guys it
was a pleasure thank you very much and
we'll see you on Thursday for a TOEFL
speaking webinar I take care